Insertion in Linked List.
Write a Program to reverse the Linked List. (Both Iterative and recursive)
Reverse a Linked List in group of Given Size. [Very Imp]. ---- Technique(Recursively call reverse on k+1 th node)
Write a program to Detect loop in a linked list. ---- Technique(Slow and Fast pointer)
Find the starting point of the loop. ---- Technique(Slow and Fast pointer)
Remove Duplicates in a sorted Linked List. ---- Technique(check if node->val == node->next->val)
Remove Duplicates in a Un-sorted Linked List. ---- Technique(HashMap)
Write a Program to Move the last element to Front in a Linked List.
Add “1” to a number represented as a Linked List.
Add two numbers represented by linked lists.
Intersection of two Sorted Linked List. ---- Technique(Two Pointer)
Intersection Point of two Linked Lists. ---- Technique(Two Pointer)
Merge Sort For Linked lists.[Very Important]
Quicksort for Linked Lists.[Very Important]
Find the middle Element of a linked list. ---- Technique(Slow and Fast pointer)
Check if a linked list is a circular linked list. ---- Technique(Check if we reach the head node, while traversing).
Split a Circular linked list into two halves. ---- Technique(Check if we reach the head node, while traversing).
Write a Program to check whether the Singly Linked list is a palindrome or not. ---- Technique(reverse the second half and compare)
Deletion from a Circular Linked List.
Reverse a Doubly Linked list.
Find pairs with a given sum in a sorted DLL. ---- Technique( Two pointer Technique)
Count triplets in a sorted DLL whose sum is equal to given value “X”. ---- Technique( Find Pair wrt every node).
Merge a “k”sorted Doubly Linked list.[Very IMP]. ---- Technique(Min Heap).
Rotate DoublyLinked list by N nodes.
Rotate a Doubly Linked list in group of Given Size.[Very IMP]. ---- Technique(Recursively call reverse on k+1 th node)
Can we reverse a linked list in less than O(n) ?----- NO
Why Quicksort is preferred for. Arrays and Merge Sort for LinkedLists ?
Flatten a Linked List. ---- Technique(Merge function from merge sort)
Sort a LL of 0's, 1's and 2's. ---- Technique(Simply count and populate)
Clone a linked list with next and random pointer[IMP].
Merge K sorted Linked list. ---- Technique(Min Heap)
Multiply 2 no. represented by LL.
Delete nodes which have a greater value on right side. ---- Technique(Reverse List and track MaxSoFar)
Segregate even and odd nodes in a Linked List.
Program for n’th node from the end of a Linked List
Find the first non-repeating character from a stream of characters