Reverse the array
Find the maximum and minimum element in an array
Find the "Kth" max and min element of an array
Given an array which consists of only 0, 1 and 2. Sort the array without using any sorting algo.  ----- ( technique: Dutch national Flag)
Move all the negative elements to one side of the array
Find the Union and Intersection of the two sorted arrays.    ----- ( technique: Union / Intersection)
Write a program to cyclically rotate an array by one.   ----- ( technique: Array Rotation)
Write a program to cyclically rotate an array k times.
find Largest sum contiguous Subarray [V. IMP]  ----- ( technique: Contiguous Subarray Sum)
Minimise the maximum difference between heights [V.IMP]  ----- ( technique: Sliding Window)
Minimum no. of Jumps to reach end of an array
find duplicate in an array of N+1 Integers  ----- ( technique: using array itself as a hashmap)
Merge 2 sorted arrays without using Extra space.  ----- ( technique: 2 Pointer)
Kadane's Algo [V.V.V.V.V IMP]
Merge Intervals.  ----- ( technique: Interval sorting)
Next Permutation.  ----- ( technique: Lexicographically next permutation)
Count Inversion.  ----- ( technique: Count # of inversions with merge sort)
Best time to buy and Sell stock  -----( technique: Max difference between 2 elements)
find all pairs of integer array whose sum is equal to given number
find common elements In 3 sorted arrays
Rearrange the array in alternating positive and negative items with O(1) extra space
Find if there is any subarray with sum equal to 0
Find factorial of a large number
find maximum product subarray
Find longest consecutive subsequence
Given an array of size n and a number k, find all elements that appear more than " n/k " times.
Maximum profit by buying and selling a share at most twice.  -----( technique: Divide and Conquer)
Maximum profit by buying and selling a share using as many transactions as you like.  -----( technique: Valley Peek Approach)
Find whether an array is a subset of another array.
Find the triplet that sum to a given value.   ----- ( technique: 2 pointer)
Trapping Rain water problem.   ----- ( technique: Pre-Sum)
Chocolate Distribution problem.
Smallest Subarray with sum greater than a given value.    ----- ( technique: Sliding Window)
Three way partitioning of an array around a given value.  ----- ( technique: Dutch national Flag)
Minimum swaps required bring elements less equal K together.    ----- ( technique: Sliding Window)
Minimum no. of operations required to make an array palindrome
Median of 2 sorted arrays of equal size.     ----- ( technique: Divide and Conquer)
Median of 2 sorted arrays of different size.     ----- ( technique: Binary Search)

Matrix:
Spiral traversal on a Matrix
Search an element in a matrix.     ----- ( technique: Binary Search)
Find median in a row wise sorted matrix.     ----- ( technique: Binary Search)
Find row with maximum no. of 1's
Print elements in sorted order using row-column wise sorted matrix.      ----- ( technique: Merge K Sorted Array)
Largest rectangle in a histogram.
Maximum size rectangle
Find a specific pair in matrix.    ----- ( technique: Pre-Sum)
Rotate matrix by 90 degrees.   ----- ( technique: Transpose and reverse)
Kth smallest element in a row-column wise sorted matrix.    ----- ( technique: MinHeap)
Common elements in all rows of a given matrix



52 .How Many Numbers Are Smaller Than the Current Number.     ----- ( technique: Buckets)
53. Count Number of Pairs With Absolute Difference K. (maps or binary search).